# "

1.6 billion years old, being the oldest life form.

1um diameter, being 1/10 of a cell.

Structuers: coccus, bacillus, vibrio, and spirochetes.

Parts:

- DNA: lacks nucleus.
- Plasmid: is a mobile genome.
- Ribosome with 30S and 50S subunits, which are not found in human; can mutate and be less susceptable to the ribosomal inhibitors.
- Protein: efflux pump pumps things out of the cytosol.
- Inner membrane.
- Peptidoglycan: sugar cell wall; thicker in Gram+.
- Transpeptidase: more in Gram+; builds the peptidoglycan layers.
- B lactamase: found in Gram-; inactivates b lactams.
- Efflux pump: expels molecules.
- Outer membrane: found in Gram-; contains proteins including porins that can regulate the space between the outer membrane and the peptidoglycan, often pumping out molecules toxic to the bacteria; contains lipopolysacharide (O antigne, outer core, inner core, and lipid A), which is a super antigen that stimulates TLR4; sepsis is more common in Gram- infection.
- Flagellum: moves the bacterium towards chemicals.
- Pilus: anchors the bacterium glycoproteins or glycolipids.
- Siderophore: takes up Fe from the environment.
- Needle: attacks other bacterium.
- Capsule: increases size by 10x; hides the bacterium; inhibits the complement system and phagocytosis.

Bacteria fight with each other.
Some developed b lactams, which inhibited building the peptidoglycan layers in others.
Humans copied b lactams to develop anti-bacterials.

Treatment considerations:

- Start broad.
- Narrow with evidence.
- Combine treatments to minimize developing resistance.

Commensal bacteria resist pathogens.

SPPACE organisms contain b lactamases in their chromosomes: Serratia marcescens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus species, Acinetobacter species, Citrobacter species, and Enterobacter species.
They can start as b lactam suceptible but increase the expression of b lactamases and become resistant.

Escheria coli and Blebsiella species have extended spectrum b lactamases, which inactivates most b lactams except carbapenems.
Carbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae make carbapenems and are susceptible to only polymyxins.
