# "

## Name

Moraxella is named after Morax, an ophthalmologist.
Catarrhalis means to flow down, refering to the discharges from the nose and eyes in its infection.

It is a large Gram- diplococcus that lives in the nasopharynx.

It is an aerobe, so it has makes oxidase.

Unlike the other neighboring and common commensal pathogens (Streptococcus pneumonia and Haemophilus influenza), it does not have capsule.

Like Staphylococcus aureus, it makes catalase and DNAse.

It is not hemolytic.

Like other Gram- microbes, it uses trimetric autotransporter adhesins to attach to an epithelial cell and makes B lactamase.

## Life

It can export vesicles containing B lactamase, which helps bacteria, even those without B lactamase, resist B lactams.

It is found inside respiratory epithelial cell, type 2 alveolar cell, and pharyngeal lymphoid tissue.

## Epidemiology

Its prevalence increased as the vaccine for Streptococcus pneumonia was adopted.
Since 1990s, it has been considered an important pathogen.
It infects more younger people.

## Medicine

Symptoms are milder than Streptococcus pneumonia.

Treatments include:

- Amoxicillin-clavulanate
- Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole
- Tetracyclines
- Fluoroquinolone

There is no available vaccine yet.

# ^

Rhinitis

Sinusitis

Otitis Media
(20% of)

Conjunctivitis.

Laryngitis

Bronchitis

Pneumonia.Broncho

Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Exacerbation
(10% of)

Bacteremia
(Rare; 20% death rate)

Meningitis

Urethritis

Sepsis

Septic Arthritis

Endocarditis
