# "

## Summary

Gram- bacteria that causes acute and severe diarrhea.

## Name

Vibrio Muller described the bacteria.
Cholera means diarrhea caused by bile.

## PATHOGEN

### Evolve

Gram- rod.
Facultative anaerobe.
Lives on aquatic things and guts of animals.
A few strains are adapted to human.
Cholera toxin is from bacteriophage.

### Enter

Fecal-oral transmission.
A lot is needed to cause disease; most die in the stomach, but some reach intestine.

### Colonize

Infects the proximal small intestine.
Pilli attach it to the surface and to each other.

Chemotaxis directs it to the intestinal surface, requirement for pathogenesis.
1 flagellum moves it.
At the surface, mucinase degrades mucin secreted by the intestinal goblet cells.
Proliferates on the surface of the villi.

### Persist

At the intestinal surface, AB toxin leaks Cl- out of the cells into the stool; Na+ and H2O follow.
B subunit binds to an epithelial cell and open a channel.
A subunit enters through the channel into the cell and irreversibly activates the G protein that opens CFTR.
Heat denatures the AB toxin.

### Replicate

Fast.

### Exit

Exit with the stool.
Fecal oral transmission.
Cholera that is recently shed by an infected person is more infectious.

## IMMUNITY

### Protect

Stomach acid destroys most of them.
Intestinal goblet cells secrete mucus, which prevents them from contacting the intestinal cells.

## MEDICINE

### Sign and Symptom

10 to 20% of infected people are symptomatic.
Acute and the most severe diarrhea of white cloudy stool.
Abdominal cramps.
Dehydration.
Death in few hours if an infected child is not treated.
30% mortality.
HCO3- loss results in metabolic acidosis.

### Diagnosis

Clinical diagnosis.
Stool microscopy and culture.

### Therapy

Oral rehydration solutions: 6 sugar : 0.5 salt.
In severe cases, intravenous fluid.
Can medicate with fluoroquinolones and tetracyclines.

### Prevention

Some Vibrio species are commmensal in fish and shell fish; eating contaminated ones can cause disease.
Cook food thoroughly.
Boil water before use.
Wash hands with soap and water.
Drink bottled water.
Vaccine available.

### Epidemiology

The second leading cause of death for children under the age of five.
Case fatality of 3.95%.
Endemic in Africa, Americas, and Haiti.

# ^

Diarrhea.Watery
