# "

## Name

Discovered during 1892 influenza pandemic.

## Feature

Gram-.
Coccobacillus.
Encapsulated, which are typed by capsular glycoproteins (a, b, c, d, e, and f), or unencapsulated.

Nonmotile.

Catalase positive.
Oxidase positive.

Lipopolysaccharide.
IgAse.
B lactamase and modified penincillin binding protein.

## Life

Found in human.
Opportunistic commensal bacteria in the nasal cavity.
Competes with Streptococcus pneumonia.

Type b causes most of the disease.

Adhere using trimeric autotransporter adhesins, which is common in Gram-.

Less invasive but highly inflammatory due to lipopolysacharide.

Transformation, which helps spread recA gene that helps surviving oxidative stress.

## Epidemiology

Commonly infects infants and young children.

1st free-living organism to have its genome sequenced by Craig Venter team.

## Medicine

Elderly are more susceptible.

Diagnose by culture.
Culture requires NAD and hemin, which is found in the a hemolytic zone of Staphylococcus aureus.
PCR.

First lines include b lactams (amoxicillin and ceftriaxone) and 3rd generation cephalosporin.
But 30% have b lactamase.
Alternatives include macrolides, tetracyclines, and fluoroquinolones.

Hib vaccine works against capsulated type b only.
The vaccine is expensive and used 42% in developing countries and 8% in least developed countries.

# ^

Otitis Media

Mastoiditis

Conjunctivitis

Rhinitis

Sinusitis
(Caused 33-66% by Streptococcus penumonia, 20% by Haemophilus influenza, and 5% by Staphylococcus aureus)

Laryngitis

Pharyngitis

Epiglottitis
(25% of; Parainfluenza virus, Streptococcus pneumonia, and Streptococcus pyogenes infections are the next common causes)

Pneumonia.Community Acquired.Bacterial

Cellulitis

Jagular Thrombophlebitis

Meningitis
(Was the leading cause in preschool child before vaccination was available)

Immediate hospitalization

Child meningitis.

# >

Meningitis

WATERHOUSE FRIDERICHSEN SYNDROME
